
1)    Can you tell something about docker container ?

        i)    Docker container is bundle of an application with all its depencies, packages which need to run an application.

        ii)   docker containers main aim is to get rid of infrastructure depencies while deploying the application to any plateform.


2)    What is Docker Image ?

        i)    this is main bundle of an application with all its depencies and packages and we create a container by this image.


3)    What is Dockerfile ?

        i)    it is a text file where we write our docker related things, like pulling an image from dockerhub, installing softwares & run some command into that image.
              basically, it used to build an image as per specifications.

4)    What is Hypervisor?

        i)    it basically a functionality used to Monitor in virtualization to its Operating System(s) (OS1, OS2, OS3).

        ii)   2 types of Hypervisor :- a) Native Hypervisor   b)  Hosted Hypervisor


5)    What is Docker Compose ?

        i)   it is a YAML file which consist various services regarding docker like we can run multiple containers with all mounting volumes, we can bind up volumes with multiple container
            based application in single go.

6)    On what circumstances will you lose data stored in a container ?

        i)   if a container gets deleted then we can lose data if we haven't mounted them with a drive/dir.


7)     What is docker image registry ?

        i)    this is the place where docker images are stored, it could be either private registry OR public registry like dockerhub we say.


8)     How many Docker components are there ?

        i)    Docker Client     :-  this component perform "Build" and "Run" operations and create connections with docker host.

        ii)   Docker Host       :-  this component has main docker daemon service which establishes connections with docker registry.

        iii)  Docker Registry   :-  this component stores the docker images, it could be either PRIVATE or PUBLIC registry.

        eg -> we hit "Docker Build" command   -> now, docker host service called daemon starts working and do communication with registry & pull the images   -> registry has main image.


9)     COPY vs ADD in Dockerfile

          i)    they both use to copy files and directories into destination,
                but using ADD we can also store any package URL as source and it will download that package in destination
                also ADD method extract any "tar" file in destination.


10)    RUN vs CMD

          i)    both method gives instruction to install or update any package in Dockerfile

                RUN :- it gives instruction to install or update any package for IMAGE  (image level)
                CMD :- it gives instruction to execute any default commands inside a CONTAINER of that IMAGE (it doesn't instruct to image, but to container)
                        if instructions are multiple then CMD use array form like CMD ["command1", "command2"] and takes last elemenent instatructions


10)    Docker save & Docker Export & Docker load & Docker import

          i)    docker save     :-  it used to export or save an image in tar file format.
                docker save do save image history (image modification history with its Metadata ie. tag versions)

          ii)   docker export   :-  it used to export a container but it doesn't save its metadata and history

          iii)  docker load     :-  it used to import (build) images from a file (tar), it stores with tags versions of image

          iv)   docker import   :-  it used to import (build) images from a file (tar), it doesn't store any tag versions of image



11)    CMD vs ENTRYPOINT

        i)    CMD               :-  it instructs to container to execute a default command to container and default command can be easily overrider later.

        ii)   ENTRYPOINT        :-  it also used to instruct to execute command to container, but this command can't be override,
                                    use --entrypoint flag to override its command


 12) ENV vs ARGS

        Both used to set environment variables in Docker.

        i)    ENV               :-  this environment variable used to set value in image level, but values persist in container as once image is built
                                    we can see those ENV values using "env" command inside container.
                                    ENV NAME=John (in command line -e NAME=John)


        ii)   ARGS              :-  this variable used to set value in image level, ARG values are not available after the image is built (values not persistent).
                                    In the running container you can’t access the ARG variables.
                                    ARG NAME=John   (in command line --build-arg NAME=John --build-arg AGE=28)


13) CMD & Entrypoint in same dockerfile, what will happen and which one will run

        a)    Only Entrypoint command will be run. 




 13) image optimization

 14) private key in sonarqube
 
 15) Types of Networks in Docker
 
        Default Docker Network Driver is Brige, we can even create custom networks.
        *imp :- if 2 containers are on same network but we didn't specify the name while creating, then it will communicate via IP address, but if we specify
                name while creating, then containers can communicate via its name as well.
                
            
 16) What if there are multiple CMD methods in Dockerfile
        it will give an error, since multiple CMD is not allowed.
